Humans are selfish creatures. Now, this doesn't mean that it's necessarily a bad thing! You may not think that all humans are selfish either, but I do, and it shouldn't have the negative connotation that it currently has

Let's start with the word. Being selfish starts from the self. Your only reference point, you can't really see things beyond your own point of view. Does that mean that you only care about yourself? Well, maybe, but probably not if there's other people in your life. And that's when the rest of the world comes in

The rest of the world revolves around you, to you. You usually think of them in relation to yourself. Your friend, your mom, your son, your enemy. You don't usually refer to them by their own standalone qualities, like "good person", even if they may be one, because this has less importance for you. Sure, it's good to know, but because being close with your friends helps you create a closer bond with them

You also see it all the time when they tell you to cut off toxic people and relationships. Well, what is a toxic relationship? It's a relationship where not both people are getting positive results out of. And that's what any relationship should strive for: not being perfect, or equal, but both parties ending up better off from it existing. And when that's not the case anymore, they tend to die. Sometimes not immediately, sometimes people hold on to hope that their relationship will turn positive again in the future. Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't, and the relationship dies

I also find it extremely rare to consider something "truly" selfless, especially not humans, but at least actions. Sure, you can donate 50 dollars to an orphanage. But how selfless is it if you feel good about it afterwards? Your money is now down 50 bucks, and the orphanage is better off, but you also feel good about it, so it's not truly selfless. A true selfless action would make you regret it, be worse off physically or economically, and benefit other people who aren't in your "world". Similar to Joel's dilemma in the last of us, it's never that simple. And nobody wants to bear that burden. I'm not saying it never happens, but nobody would boast about it. They would be too busy regretting how selfless they were

So I urge you not to feel bad if you feel selfish, or a leech, everyone is doing their part and positivity can spring up from selfishness. In the end, everyone can win when they're playing with the same rules, and being friendly with others tends to end up with you being better off than you were before. So make sure to be nice, because that's the most selfish thing you can do